---
title: "UC OSPO Network Launches Open Source Survey"
date: 2025-04-16
draft: false
description:
  "The UC OSPO Network is conducting a survey to understand the open source
  practices and needs of the University of California community."
tags: [network, survey]
displayInList: true
author: ["Virginia Scarlett"]

resources:
  - name: featuredImage
    src: "firmbee-com-unsplash-small.jpg"
    params:
      description: "Close-up of a pair of hands using a phone beside a computer"
      showOnTop: true
---

_Image courtesy of firmbee.com via Unsplash_

The UC OSPO Network is thrilled to announce that our survey, "Challenges and
Opportunities in Open Source", is underway. Led by a research team at UC Santa
Barbara and encompassing all campuses in the network, the survey will inform
activities across the UC system. The survey is being actively distributed at the
six campuses currently represented in the network, but it is open to responses
from anyone at a UC campus engaged in contributing to open source, whether as a
maintainer, engineer, issue reporter, document developer, community manager or
another role associated with open source software. This survey will help
academic OSPOs prioritize among the many ways that they can serve their
communities, providing targeted services with maximum benefit.

## Uncovering challenges and opportunities

We developed this survey to identify areas of greatest need for open-source
support. The core questions focus on challenges open source contributors have
faced and the potential solutions they might find most useful. When combined
with biographical information such as position type, the responses will
highlight where support is most needed overall, and reveal differences between
groups—for example, faculty versus postdocs or maintainers versus occasional
contributors. Additionally, a free-text response box invites participants to
describe further challenges or solutions, which we will use to uncover
additional opportunities.

## Integrating repository data

We will also leverage the survey to explore repository characteristics and to
develop an understanding of UC open source practices. For instance, what
licenses are people using, if any? Are repositories including a README or "How
to cite" instructions? To support answering these questions, we're asking survey
participants who feel comfortable sharing their repository information to
provide their GitHub (or GitLab, BitBucket, etc.) usernames. We can then
manually analyze this sample of repositories, in combination with others
revealed through work at UC Santa Cruz, to identify common practices and
potential challenges. These insights will then inform a larger-scale study where
we apply machine learning techniques to analyze repository metadata across a
broader set of publicly available UC repositories—always in aggregate and with
sensitivity to privacy.

## Reproducibility and looking ahead

The survey was designed by the UC OSPO Network team at UCSB, with input from
members across the network as well as colleagues outside of UC. Our goal is to
create a survey instrument that we can implement annually and that other
universities can repurpose and reproduce. To that end, a PDF of the survey
instrument is available upon request and once the study is published, the survey
instrument and anonymized data will be shared in accessible formats.

We look forward to sharing the insights gained from this survey and applying
them to strengthen open-source practices across the UC system. We are deeply
grateful to our survey respondents for contributing their valuable perspectives.
Together, we're building a more effective and supportive open source community
within academia.

For questions or comments about the survey, or to receive a link to take the
survey, please email [ospo@library.ucsb.edu](mailto:ospo@library.ucsb.edu). The
survey will be open until May 2, 2025.
